Release notes for lightweight access tokens and group together relate… (#28622)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/release_notes/topics/25_0_0.adoc

application with an OIDC/SAML error, so the client application can immediately retry authentication, which should usually automatically log in the application because of the SSO session. For more
details, see link:{adminguide_link}#_authentication-sessions[{adminguide_name} authentication sessions].

= Lightweight access token to be even more lightweight

In previous releases, the support for lightweight access token was added. In this release, we managed to remove even more built-in claims from the lightweight access token. The claims are added

> by protocol mappers. Some of them affects even the regular access tokens or ID tokens as they were not strictly required by the OIDC specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by protocol mappers. Some of them affect even the regular access tokens or ID tokens as they were not strictly required by the OIDC specification.
```

> * Claims `sub` and `auth_time` are added by protocol mappers now, which are configured by default on the new client scope `basic`, which is added automatically to all the clients. The claims are still added to ID token and access token as before, but not to lightweight access token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Claims `sub` and `auth_time` are added by protocol mappers now, which are configured by default on the new client scope `basic`, which is added automatically to all the clients. The claims are still added to the ID token and access token as before, but not to lightweight access token.
```

> * Claim `nonce` is added only to ID token now. Not to regular access token or lightweight access token. For backwards compatibility purpose, it is possible to add it to access token by protocol mapper, which need to be explicitly configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Claim `nonce` is added only to ID token now.  It is not added to regular access token or lightweight access token. For backwards compatibility, you can add this claim to an access token by protocol mapper, which needs to be explicitly configured.
```

> * Claim `session_state` is not added to any token now. It is still possible to add it by protocol mapper if needed. There is still the other dedicated claim `sid` supported by the specification, which was available in previous versions as well and which has exactly same value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Claim `session_state` is not added to any token now. It is still possible to add it by protocol mapper if needed. There is still the other dedicated claim `sid` supported by the specification, which was available in previous versions as well and which has exactly the same value.
```
